so you've decided to make your first
steps on the way to a healthier fitter
body you've geared up watch yourself a
gym membership watch some YouTube
tutorials on basic exercises and gone
for it but after a few weeks there's
still so little progress what's up with
that check if you're doing everything
right just a couple of little tweaks can
make all the difference your warmup
isn't enough warmup is a big deal
all this stretching and running in place
isn't just for fun it gets your muscles
and tendons ready for workout making
them more elastic and less prone to
micro injuries also your heart rate goes
up a bit making your blood pump faster
and boosting your further performance if
you don't pay attention to warming up
you're likely to get sore the next day
and unable to continue training at all
but even if you do it correctly chances
are that you're not spending enough time
on it a minute of brisk walking with
your arms flailing isn't gonna get you
set up for an hour of exercise stretch
all your limbs in all possible
directions walk or run in place for a
jiffy and yes flail those arms and legs
there's no set time limit for that
you'll know you're good to go when
you've broken some sweat you're doing
either cardio or weights not both
suppose your goal is to shed some extra
pounds
who needs lugging weights for that right
a healthy schedule diet and some cardio
every day that's the way to go now
forget it
jogging cycling or rowing are all good
at burning calories but they don't build
muscle and muscle is exactly the thing
that helps you lose weight even when
you're resting keeping your muscle
tissue in shape requires a lot of energy
and nutrients and your body takes them
eagerly when you train your strength by
the way the older you are the more
strength exercises you actually need to
keep up same goes for muscle building if
you only have two weights in the gym
because you want that rip look sadly you
won't get there anytime soon to get
those carved and bulging muscles you
need to get rid of excess fat and
that's cardio for you also cardio helps
to be more productive with weights by
training your endurance you hurry I get
it
you want to get in perfect shape ASAP
but going for weights larger than you or
exhausting yourself on the treadmill
from the get-go isn't going to help
on the contrary since your body isn't
ready for such ordeals yet the only
thing you'll get is excruciating pain
and fatigue the very next day so take it
easy and go slow let your body adjust to
the new schedule if you've never done
any serious exercise before start with
light weights in just several minutes of
continuous running or swimming with
weights like dumbbells or barbells take
whatever you feel comfortable with and
do as many reps and sets as you can as
soon as you feel like it's too easy to
do lots of reps without resting add some
weight and go on as for cardio do it
non-stop until you feel tired and sweaty
and don't forget to watch your heart
rate get it to high and you may even
faint it's best to repeat your cardio in
short dashes switching it with weight
lifting this way you'll notice you can
run swim or row and gradually more
prolonged sessions easily you ignore the
form so you've warmed up until light
flecks of sweat appeared on your
forehead done some cardio for about 5
minutes and switch to strength exercise
you take a barbell and hey your back's
crooked that's cheating okay how about
chin-ups ah come on you look like a
snake on that bar rapper form is crucial
when it comes to strength and endurance
training if you do an exercise
incorrectly
not only you won't get any good results
but you'll also put your health at risk
for example arching your back during
deadlifts puts too much strain on your
lower back and one day you'll simply
bend to tie your shoelaces and won't be
able to straighten up again as for those
chin-ups I mentioned snaking your way up
over the bar engages all the wrong
muscles your main targets here are
shoulders and back and you need to stay
perfectly still to train them
specifically cardio can be a bit tricky
to each exercise has its own dues
domes even running so better do some
research on proper form before beginning
for instance when you jog you need to
stay away from overly hard surfaces like
asphalt and put on really good running
shoes otherwise the shock from the
constant impact might stress your back
and knees too much you don't drink water
now before you turn off the video let me
say I'm not being Captain Obvious here
of course you know staying hydrated is
important but the key word here is water
many beginner gym goers think that
sports drinks will help them get in
shape faster but that's not true
these drinks contain a lot of sugar and
other additives because they help
professional athletes better recover
after rigorous training sessions since
you're not a professional at least not
yet such ingredients will only drag you
down fruit juices smoothies and protein
drinks may seem a harmless choice but
they also contain sugar or additives
what's more your body thinks of them as
food so when you think you drink a glass
of orange juice you actually eat it no
not the glass but juice anyway only
clear water doesn't have anything extra
in it so all the much-needed fluids go
inside your body and hydrate it
perfectly
in short water is your friend you shrug
off professional advice not the
recommendations you found on the
Internet
the personal kind if you're new to
serious exercise you might get confused
by all the different tips on the web and
even if you think you've found the most
credible source of info it might not be
quite so for you paying for a set of
individual trainings might seem in
excess but you will be sure this routine
is prepared for you personally and it
fits you like no other